New South Wales government announces 'Bradfield' as name for third city of Greater Sydney (section Metro map and temperature data). Yesterday, the state government of New South Wales (NSW), Australia announced "Bradfield" as the name for the planned third city in Greater Sydney. Bradfield is located at west of City of Parramatta and Sydney, in vicinity of the then currently in construction Western Sydney International (Nancy-Bird Walton) Airport.  The city is to be named in honour of John Bradfield, the engineer who designed the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Sydney rail line.  The name came after a public consultation earlier last year. In a press release on the New South Wales official website, Premier Gladys Berejiklian commented on the significance of the chosen name, "Bradfield was a renowned engineer who designed and oversaw the construction of both the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Sydney's original railway network".  "The name Bradfield is synonymous with delivering game-changing infrastructure and it sets the right tone for the area we have referred to as the 'Aerotropolis Core' until now", Berejiklian added. According to the announcement, the planned city area is more than 1 km2 (100 hectares) positioned to the north of the Bringelly suburb.  In the official announcement, Premier Gladys Berejiklian wrote the city would be a "high-tech manufacturing and research hub" and it would create 200 thousand jobs.  Premier Gladys Berejiklian clarified the scope of the planned city, saying "[t]his area will be transformed into a thriving city centre, home to advanced manufacturing, research, science and education and we want Bradfield to be as iconic as the existing major city centres of Sydney and Parramatta.   [... ] What are paddocks now will be a thriving, bustling city centre offering the best job opportunities anywhere in Australia." Minister for Western Sydney Stuart Ayres commented on the prior public consultation and the large community involvement, saying "The number of suggestions the community put forward to 'Name the Place' was overwhelming and we are thrilled with the level of participation and interest this project attracted. [ ... ] We thank everyone for having their say and want to assure the community the remaining suggestions will be considered as names for streets, parks and other landmarks in the new city centre. [ ... ] I look forward to Bradfield being the first name that people think of when starting a new job, creating a new business, learning a new skill and investing in NSW." Per a report from Sydney Metro published in June 2020, the Western Sydney International project of the airport and the metro is planned to be inaugurated in 2026. With some comments on social media having indicated concerns over the hotter climate in the area, Wikinews has retrieved the mean maximum temperatures for the three areas -- Sydney, Parramatta, and Badgerys Creek location -- and has found arithmetic mean of annual of monthly mean maximum temperatures for these locations to be 23.13, 23.8 and 24.04° Celsius, according to the data from 1996 to 2020 from the Bureau of Meteorology. According to official data from local authorities, City of Sydney was founded in 1842 and has an area of 26.15 km2; while Sydney was converted from a penal colony in the year of 1788.  Parramatta was also founded in 1788, and has an area of 84 km2.