On the campaign trail in the USA, May 2016 (category Climate change). The following is the first edition of a monthly series chronicling the U.S. 2016 presidential election. It features original material compiled throughout the previous month after an overview of the month's biggest stories. In this month's edition on the campaign trail: a former Republican congressman briefly joins the Libertarian Party and runs for vice president; the Democratic Party names its National Convention Platform Drafting Committee amid controversy; and Wikinews interviews a candidate who had a surprisingly strong performance in the West Virginia Democratic presidential primary. On the campaign trail in early May, the Republican Party primary race grew more contentious as it reached its final stages.  On the same day as the May 3 Indiana primary, Republican front-runner Donald Trump, who held a sizable delegate lead over his two remaining primary challengers, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Ohio Governor John Kasich, cited the National Enquirer to accuse Cruz's father of involvement in the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy.  Cruz, whom Trump branded as "Lyin' Ted," attacked Trump as a "pathological liar" and "serial philanderer."  Trump won Indiana by a large margin, prompting the second place Cruz to end his campaign.  Thereafter, both the media and Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus christened Trump as the presumptive nominee, even though he had yet to secure the requisite number of National Convention delegates.  The next day, Kasich finally suspended his candidacy.  As Trump pivoted into general election mode, he faced a vocal Stop Trump movement within the party and a significant polling deficit against the Democrats.  A national CNN/ORC poll showed Trump trailing Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton by double digits.  Nevertheless, unlike the GOP, the outcome of the Democratic primary race remained undecided.  Although Clinton maintained a significant delegate lead, a CNN poll showed her ahead of sole rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, by only eight points.   In fact, Sanders won the Indiana Democratic primary, making nine victories out of the latest fourteen contests to that point. Commencing his general election campaign, Trump announced he would participate in fundraising after self-funding his primary campaign. He named former presidential rival, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson to head a group to search for a running mate.  And, in a show of pro-Hispanic sentiment, he tweeted a photo of himself with a taco bowl on Cinco de Mayo.  Still, the Republican Party remained divided.  Speaker of the House Paul Ryan said he would not commit to endorsing Trump.  He called for Trump "to set aside bullying, [...] belittlement, and appeal to higher aspirations."  Ryan's comments drew criticism from former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former 2016 presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, among others.  However, former candidates Lindsey Graham and Jeb Bush, as well as former Presidents George W. Bush and George H. W. Bush, all said they could not support Trump's candidacy.  2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney and Weekly Standard editor Bill Kristol both called for an independent presidential candidate to run as an alternative to Trump.  Ryan called this "a disaster," and sought unity by inviting Trump to a Republican congressional leadership meeting and offering to step down as chair of the GOP National Convention if Trump so desired.  Despite the internal strife, Trump continued his focus on the general election, branding Clinton as "crooked Hillary," and attacking her for "want[ing] to abolish the Second Amendment."  He also pivoted on policies, advocating for a rise in the federal minimum wage and taxes on the wealthy.  The campaign announced that five or six names were on the vice presidential shortlist including former presidential candidate Chris Christie.  Quinnipiac polls showed Trump leading or close behind Clinton in head-to-head match ups in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Florida.  Clinton won the caucus in Guam and the campaign shifted to West Virginia and Nebraska.  On the eve of the May 10 primaries, Cruz, still on the ballot in Nebraska, announced he might restart his campaign if he won the state. Instead, Trump won Nebraska by a wide margin and won West Virginia by an even wider margin.  On the Democratic side, Sanders won West Virginia as voters turned on Clinton after she expressed unencouraging views about the coal industry.  ABC News exit polling there revealed nearly half of Sanders supporters said they would vote for Trump if Clinton won the nomination. Vice President Joe Biden, who had been expected to mount a 2016 campaign until he ruled it out in late 2015, admitted in an interview with ABC that he had planned to run for president in 2016 but the plans derailed upon the death of his son Beau.  He revealed Senator Elizabeth Warren as his preferred running mate and endorsed her for the Democratic vice presidential nomination.  Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada cautioned Democrats against nominating a sitting Senator like Warren to avoid decreasing the number of Democrats in the Senate.  Trump launched an assault on Warren, referring to her as "goofy" and Pocahontas for a previous claim of Amerindian ancestry. On May 12, Trump had his much anticipated meeting with Ryan.  Afterwards, the two issued a joint statement calling the meeting "a very positive step toward unification." Ryan still withheld his endorsement though Trump asked Ryan to remain as chair of the National Convention. Polls from mid-May showed Trump edging closer to Clinton in national head-to-head match ups, as Trump faced a barrage of controversies. Both Clinton and Romney called on Trump to release his tax records.  He said he might release them, but maintained it was "none of [the public's] business."  Media reports also scrutinized Trump for allegedly acting as his own publicist in the early 1990's.   He denied the allegations outright.  Next, The New York Times published an exposé about Trump's treatment of women throughout the years.  The validity of the story came into question when the lead interviewee claimed The Times had taken her account out of context.  On May 17, Trump easily won the Oregon primary.  The next day, for the first time in months, a Fox News poll showed him with a national lead over Clinton.  That same day, he released a list of eleven judges whom he would consider nominating to the U.S. Supreme Court.  He later received an endorsement from the National Rifle Association.  In the Democratic race, Sanders won the Oregon primary and narrowly lost to Clinton in Kentucky.  He was also able to add five of his supporters to the Democratic National Convention platform drafting committee, ensuring greater influence over the party platform.  Clinton rejected a debate with him and announced there would be no further primary debates.  Trump offered to debate Sanders, which Sanders accepted, though Trump later backed out.  Clinton went on the offensive against Trump for his past business bankruptcies, saying he "could bankrupt America like he's bankrupted his companies."  She won the Washington primary on May 24.   However, the next day, an Inspector General report said she did not comply with State Department policy when she sent official e-mails on a private server while Secretary of State. Following a victory in the Washington Republican primary, Trump traveled to New Mexico, where the sitting Republican governor Susana Martinez snubbed his event.  Trump attacked Martinez during the rally, later asking, "If I have a Republican that’s not on my side, why should I be particularly nice to that person?"  Shortly thereafter, during a speech in California, he renewed attacks against Romney, Cruz, Kristol, and Jeb Bush.  Former rival Marco Rubio announced he would release the delegates he won during the primary to support Trump and said he would be willing to go on the campaign trail for Trump, if asked.  Rubio also apologized to Trump for derogatory comments he made earlier in the campaign.  Trump mathematically secured the Republican nomination, when an uncommitted slate of delegates in North Dakota committed to supporting him.   Meanwhile, the Libertarian Party commenced its National Convention and nominated for president, on the second ballot, former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson, the party's 2012 presidential nominee.  Also on the second ballot, for vice president, the party nominated Johnson's pre-selected running mate, former Massachusetts Governor William Weld, who had just left the Republican Party to become a Libertarian.  Trump called Johnson a "fringe candidate."  Johnson was not the last such candidate introduced in late May.  Seemingly ending his search for an alternative to Trump, Kristol tweeted that he had found an "impressive" independent candidate.  Bloomberg reported the candidate was little-known writer David A. French of the National Review.  On the final day of May, Trump held a press conference in which he revealed the veterans charities he donated to after raising $5.6 million during a fundraiser he held in January in lieu of attending a debate.  Trump excoriated the national press for its coverage of his campaign and referred to one reporter as "sleaze."  With the June 7 California primary ahead, Clinton received the endorsement of California Governor Jerry Brown.  The latest polls showed her with a two point advantage over Sanders in the state.  In the Real Clear Politics average, she led Trump in the general election nationally by 1.5%. As soon as Donald Trump secured the Republican presidential nomination, Libertarian Party (LP) membership applications doubled.  Longtime Republican consultant Mary Matalin, former Massachusetts governor William Weld, and former Congressman Kerry Bentivolio of Michigan, were among those who left the GOP in May to find a new home in the LP.  While Matalin enthusiastically backed Libertarian presidential runner-up Austin Petersen, and Weld won the party's vice presidential nomination; Bentivolio, who had endorsed Dr. Ben Carson for president before joining the party, had a much different experience. "It was suggested by a few supporters I run [for vice president] as a libertarian," says Bentivolio, a teacher and veteran of the Vietnam and Iraq wars, who earned the moniker "the accidental Congressman" after his  surprising 2012 election, "I briefly entertained the idea of running and spent time investigating the party." Bentivolio, 64, unexpectedly won the Republican nomination to represent Michigan's 11th Congressional District in 2012, after the sitting Congressman, Thaddeus McCotter, a 2012 presidential candidate, was unable to run for re-election after his petitions to qualify for the primary ballot were deemed fraudulent.  Upon his victory in the general election, Bentivolio went to Washington, joining the House Committee on Small Business and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  He took an active role in introducing and sponsoring successful legislation, becoming, according to an historian of the House, one of the most effective freshmen Congressmen of recent times. GovTrack listed him as the most transparent Republican freshman in the 113th United States Congress.  Nevertheless, during his single term, he frequently bucked the party leadership, voting against a resolution to the 2013 government shutdown, calling for the impeachment of President Barack Obama, and agreeing to seek congressional hearings over chemtrails.  In 2014, Bentivolio lost his seat to attorney Dave Trott, a primary opponent with a fundraising edge and the backing of the Republican establishment.   After leaving Congress, Bentivolio suffered financial difficulties and had to file for bankruptcy in 2015, partly the result of his expensive primary campaign against Trott. When Bentivolio joined the LP in May, he filed a Form 2 with the Federal Election Commission to run for vice president.  Libertarian national chairman Nicholas Sarwark encouraged Bentivolio to run for his old congressional seat in addition to vice president.  This was not well received by the local Libertarian Party, which feared such a run would violate Michigan's sore-loser law; the same law that prevented Gary Johnson from appearing on the ballot in 2012.   As a consequence, the local party nominated another candidate to run for the seat. "The district delegates [five in total] voted for another as the House candidate", recounts Bentivolio, "[the candidate's] wife was the deciding vote." Afterwards, Bentivolio expressed doubt about the party platform, saying it amounted to "judicial supremacy," which he rejects, referencing the 1857 Dred Scott case, which affirmed the rights of slaveholders.  He added, "I am 100% pro-life and an abolitionist and many in the Libertarian Party are pro-choice and support slavery in their immigration policy."  He cited these as his reasons for ending his vice presidential campaign. After Gary Johnson and William Weld won the party's presidential and vice presidential nominations at the 2016 Libertarian National Convention, Bentivolio offered his perspective on Johnson and Weld.  Though he considered Johnson, "a nice guy and honest," he felt Johnson "thinks government has all the answers."  In contrast, Bentivolio said he personally believes "government is the problem" and only supports "a government within the strict limitations clearly expressed in the Constitution."  He described Weld, a Council on Foreign Relations member who proposed strict gun control measures as governor, as someone who "supports big government." Bentivolio has left the LP and now is an independent.  He remains undecided on whether to support Donald Trump for president.  To help him decide, he is currently researching claims of a woman named "Katie Johnson" who filed a lawsuit accusing Trump of rape.  Trump's attorneys dismiss the suit as a hoax. Every four years, the Democratic Party holds its National Convention, nominating a presidential ticket and conducting official business.   One important item is the drafting of a party platform to express the party's principles and vision for the future. A special committee is formed to draft the document.  In May, fifteen individuals were named to the committee.  Democratic National Committee (DNC) chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz selected four of the members while the two presidential candidates picked the remaining eleven in proportion to the votes each candidate received in the primaries.  Hillary Clinton, the party's presidential front-runner, selected six.  Bernie Sanders chose five, though the DNC rejected one of his original picks, a union leader, leading to charges of anti-union bias in the DNC.  Still, upon the release of the names, The Nation magazine argued Sanders' input provided the committee with a "progressive majority." Wikinews was able to reach out to one of Sanders' picks to see what he planned for the platform. For the committee, Wasserman Schultz tapped Congressman Elijah Cummings, who is to serve as the head; Congresswoman Barbara Lee, the only returning member from 2012; former Congressman Howard Berman; and Bonnie Schaefer, former Chief Executive Officer of Claire's.  Clinton selected Ambassador Wendy Sherman; Neera Tanden, head of the Center for American Progress; Ohio Representative Alicia Reece; Carol Browner, former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); Congressman Luis Gutiérrez; and union leader Paul Booth.  Sanders picked Dr. Cornel West; Congressman Keith Ellison, the first Muslim elected to the US Congress; James Zogby, head of the Arab American Institute; Deborah Parker, a Native American activist; and Bill McKibben, a renowned environmentalist. McKibben, a Schumann Distinguished Scholar at Middlebury College who co-founded the climate change awareness organization 350.org , tells Wikinews that his Vermont roots may explain why Sanders selected him for the committee.   However, McKibben has worked with Sanders previously on climate and energy issues, and The Boston Globe has described him as "probably the nation’s leading environmentalist." "I'd like to see [the platform] reflect the fact that since the last election the planet's climate has deteriorated dramatically, with record temperatures, melting ice, and dying coral", says McKibben, "So that means we need to move more aggressively, both to cut our reliance on fossil fuels and to boost renewable energy." McKibben is not the only member who prioritizes environmental issues.  Browner, who headed the EPA during the entire presidency of Bill Clinton, has worked under President Obama as the director of the White House Office of Energy and Climate Change Policy.   While the environment is given a strong emphasis, Sanders has raised the point that labor representation on the committee is lacking. In 2012, union leaders Donna Harris-Aikens of the National Education Association and Thea Lee of the AFL-CIO  were on the committee.  This year, the only union leader is Booth of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.  Sanders attempted to include National Nurses United executive director RoseAnn DeMoro, but Wasserman Schultz vetoed the pick. Sanders, in a press conference, accused the DNC of "not want[ing] representatives of labor unions on the platform drafting committee."   The DNC rejected the charge. "We worked carefully with both campaigns to ensure overall balance and representation," says DNC spokeswoman April Mellody, "[we] have 100% confidence that the views of our allies in the Labor community will be well represented in our Party’s platform as they have always been." Amid the division, McKibben expresses hope that though the platform is often "forgotten not long after it's written," perhaps the 2016 platform "will play a role in uniting the party." The committee is set to convene at the 2016 Democratic National Convention July 25–28 in Philadelphia. In the May 10 West Virginia Democratic primary, Bernie Sanders defeated Hillary Clinton 51.4 percent to 35.8 percent.  Of the remaining 13 percent, nearly nine went to little-known protest candidate Paul T. Farrell Jr., a Huntington, West Virginia attorney who entered the race to challenge President Obama's energy policies.   Wikinews reached out to Farrell to ask a few questions about the campaign. During the campaign, Farrell did not hold any fundraisers and his only spending was the $2,500 filing fee to appear on the ballot. He believes Obama's policies, which Clinton supports, have hurt the coal industry, a major sector of West Virginia's economy.  Many West Virginians, even Democrats, share this view.  While mining still makes up 17 percent of West Virginia's gross domestic product (compared to 3 percent nationally), since 2009, coal production has declined around 45 percent in the south part of the state.  332 mines have closed and almost 10,000 jobs or 35 percent of those in the industry, have been lost. West Virginia's unemployment is the worst in the nation.   According to ABC News exit polls from the primary, only 26 percent of West Virginia Democrats want to continue Obama's policies. Although registered Democrats outnumber Republicans roughly 577,000 to 378,000 in West Virginia, Republican presidential candidates have won the state in every election since 2000.  ABC exit polls indicate a third of Democrats plan to vote in November for Trump, who has campaigned in favor of the coal industry.  Trump is popular in West Virginia, having won 77 percent in the state's GOP primary.  He holds a 27 point lead over Clinton in the latest Public Policy Polling head-to-head match up. West Virginia Democrats have a history of going against the national party establishment.  Notably, prison inmate Keith Russell Judd won 41 percent in the 2012 primary against Obama, who was seeking re-election.  Judd was on the ballot again in 2016, but received only 1.8 percent of the vote.  Judd's 2012 performance was one of the reasons Farrell cited for entered the race.  In addition, he told the Charleston Gazette–Mail back in January that the candidates running did not share "West Virginia values."  He had hoped to secure some national convention delegates but just fell short.  He was able to come in second place in the coal-rich Mingo County, where he outpaced Clinton 23.7 percent to 21.4 percent. With Wikinews, Farrell discusses, his specific problem with Obama's energy policy, what he is looking for in a presidential candidate, and his views on Trump. ((WSS))  How were you able to get over 8% of the vote in the West Virginia Democratic Primary? ((WSS))  Do you plan on supporting the Democratic presidential nominee come November? ((WSS))  What are your thoughts on presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump?