CanadaVOTES: NDP candidate Anne Lagacé Dowson in Westmount—Ville-Marie. In an attempt to speak with as many candidates as possible during the 2008 Canadian federal election, Wikinews has talked via email with Anne Lagacé Dowson. Dowson is a candidate in Quebec's Westmount—Ville-Marie riding, running under the New Democratic Party (NDP) banner. There is no incumbent in Dowson's riding, as the area's Liberal MP resigned earlier this year. A by-election was scheduled, but cancelled at the last minute, once Prime Minister Stephen Harper called a national election. Candidates in the riding are Dowson (NDP), former astronaut Marc Garneau (Liberal), Charles Larivée (Bloc Québécois), Guy Dufort (Conservative), and co-deputy party leader for the Greens Claude William Genest. Judith Vienneau of the joke party Neorhino.ca is also on the ballot. The riding includes the City of Westmount, parts of Old Montreal, the Borough of Ville-Marie, Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, and The Plateau. The following is an interview with Ms. Dowson, conducted via email. The interview is published unedited, as sent to Wikinews. Why are you running for political office, why at the federal level, why this party, and why in this riding? Incumbents: Why did you choose to run for office, and why do you wish to continue as an MP? Previous to this campaign, have you been politically involved? How will you apply your for those concerns in Ottawa. As you campaign around your riding, it's likely that some issues are mentioned more often by voters, than other issues. What would you say are the three hottest topics this election, in your riding? What would you and your party do to address these issues? There are more ways than ever to get your message out, from the traditional campaign fliers and lawn signs, to new media like websites, Facebook, and YouTube. The tried-and-true routes get the message out to the masses much easier, but digital alternatives are much more measurable in how many are seeing or interacting with your campaign. What seems to be the most effective, from your experience?