Wikinews interviews Anda Banikos, local council candidate in South Gippsland, Australia. Since June 2019, the people of South Gippsland Shire, located at the southernmost tip of Australia, have been without a local council, after a state government inquiry found "high levels of tension" within the council. Administrators were appointed by the Victorian state government in July 2019, who have governed the shire since then. However, South Gippsland's council is scheduled to be restored with an election to be held via post from October 5-22, 2021. Wikinews interviewed one of the candidates standing in this election, Anda Banikos, an independent candidate running in the Coastal-Promontory Ward. The Coastal-Promontory ward covers towns such as Venus Bay, Waratah Bay, Yanakie, Foster, Port Welshpool, and Toora, and elects three councillors to the South Gippsland Shire Council. ((WN))  What do you hope to achieve as a councillor? ((Anda Banikos))  As a South Gippsland Shire councillor, my priorities will be: ((WN))  Do you think the two-year period that South Gippsland Shire has been governed by administrators since its 2019 sacking has been too long, and why/why not? ( (Anda Banikos))  Two years is too long, as the administrators are not a democratically elected people's voice. After the elected council was dismissed, it was appropriate to appoint administrators without connections to our Shire. However, in my view, the administrators should have been able to get their job done and new elections organised within a year, not the two years it has taken. During these two years, the administrators have made decisions and implemented plans without transparent community scrutiny or input. I look forward to the new Council working effectively with the community on future plans for our Shire. ((WN))  Wilsons Promontory National Park, which takes up the majority of Coastal-Promontory ward's land area, attracts a significant amount of tourists on a yearly basis. With the COVID-19 pandemic and the current lockdown, there has been a large impact on local businesses. What do you think needs to be done to help business recovery? ((Anda Banikos))  Ways our Shire can support small businesses recover are: ((WN))  What changes and reforms would you like to see in regards to environmental protection? ((Anda Banikos)) ((WN))  What do you think qualifies you to be a local councillor? ((Anda Banikos))   I have lived in South Gippsland for three decades, moving here with a young family in the 1990s. I currently teach at Fish Creek PS and have worked in most of the schools in Coastal Promontory Ward over the past 25 years. I have experience with mixed ability education and have been a carer for young people with disabilities. My community involvement has been with an arts and environment focus. As an active member of Prom Coast Arts, I have been involved in organising wide-ranging community arts events such as The Prom Coast Festival, The Fish Creek Tea Cosy Festival, The Great Southern Portrait Prize and the HorseArtsAnzac project. I am also an active member of Landcare and Friends of the Prom. My community involvement and work have all involved respect, goodwill, listening, creative thinking, collaboration and bringing together people of diverse backgrounds and views to produce a mutually worthwhile outcome. I will work with integrity and respect for a better future for all of South Gippsland. ((WN))  In your local community, are there any specific projects you'd like to highlight and advocate for? ((Anda Banikos)) ((WN))  During the COVID-19 lockdown, how have you reached out to local voters? ((Anda Banikos))  It has been a challenge to connect with voters during lockdown! Some of the strategies I am using are: ((WN))  Have you ever run for a political office prior to your current candidacy for council? ((Anda Banikos))  I have never before run for political office, but am a strong supporter of the democratic process and have worked for the AEC and VEC as an electoral officer. I have no political affiliations or vested business interests in our Shire. I decided to run for Council because I care about our community and environment and can see unavoidable changes and threats posed by climate change. I can also see the opportunities offered by new technologies and creative communities to make South Gippsland more resilient and productive.